
How Hadoop Works

Hadoop makes it easier to use all the storage and processing capacity in cluster servers, and to execute distributed processes against huge amounts of data. Hadoop provides the building blocks on which other services and applications can be built.

Applications that collect data in various formats can place data into the Hadoop cluster by using an API operation to connect to the NameNode. The NameNode tracks the file directory structure and placement of "chunks" for each file, replicated across DataNodes. To run a job to query the data, provide a MapReduce job made up of many map and reduce tasks that run against the data in HDFS spread across the DataNodes. Map tasks run on each node against the input files supplied, and reducers run to aggregate and organize the final output.

The Hadoop ecosystem has grown significantly over the years due to its extensibility. Today, the Hadoop ecosystem includes many tools and applications to help collect, store, process, analyze, and manage big data. Some of the most popular applications are:

    Spark – An open source, distributed processing system commonly used for big data workloads. Apache Spark uses in-memory caching and optimized execution for fast performance, and it supports general batch processing, streaming analytics, machine learning, graph databases, and ad hoc queries.

    Presto – An open source, distributed SQL query engine optimized for low-latency, ad-hoc analysis of data. It supports the ANSI SQL standard, including complex queries, aggregations, joins, and window functions. Presto can process data from multiple data sources including the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS) and Amazon S3.

    Hive – Allows users to leverage Hadoop MapReduce using a SQL interface, enabling analytics at a massive scale, in addition to distributed and fault-tolerant data warehousing.

    HBase – An open source, non-relational, versioned database that runs on top of Amazon S3 (using EMRFS) or the Hadoop Distributed File System (HDFS). HBase is a massively scalable, distributed big data store built for random, strictly consistent, real-time access for tables with billions of rows and millions of columns.

    Zeppelin – An interactive notebook that enables interactive data exploration.

